# CMake-based Assignment Template

This template repository can be used to create CMake-based C++ programming assignments and the associated grading Action.

For each assignment, you need to generate 2 repositories from this template:

1. a skeleton repository for students, and
2. a private auto-grader repository with solution code.

The skeleton repository is generated by GitHub classroom when you create an assignment with this repository as template.
The auto-grader repository must be manually created by you, however.

For recurring classes, make sure to name them appropriately for better organization:

| Type     | Name                       | Note                                                |
|----------|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| Skeleton | `YYYY-assignment-N`        | Student repositories will be prefixed by this name. |
| Solution | `grade-YYYY-asssignment-N` | This name is used as the auto-grader action.        |

Customize each repositories for the coding questions.

## Skeleton Repository

Generate an assignment repository from this template in your organization.
Each assignment base repository will then generate from this assignment template.

Edit 3 files: `src/main.cpp`, `src/solution.cpp`, and `src/solution.hpp`.

In `src/solution.hpp`, provide function signatures for each questions.
Then, `src/solution.cpp`, define the functions with empty body.
Simple examples are already present in each files.
Instruct students to implement their solutions in `src/solution.cpp` and not to touch other files.

> [!TIP]
> Set up protected file paths in GitHub Classroom assignment options to easily see if students messed with other files.

Then, in the `main.cpp` file, read from standard input, call the solution functions and print the result.
The format is up to you, but make sure that the answers don't contain newlines.
The grader will consider newline-terminated output as one testcase.
See the `switch` statement for a simple example.

Write the questions in the `README.md` file.

Make an assignment in your classroom with appropriate title.
Set the skeleton repository as the assignment repository you just customized.
Student repositories will be forked from this repo.

## Solution Repository

> [!CAUTION]
> **This repository must be private!**
> If not, students may be able to see the solution source code.

From the assignment repository template, manually generate a solution repository.
Implement the solution here.

Since students must be able to access this "private action", you need to allow intra-organization access for this repository.
Go to repository settings, **Action** tab, then **General** menu.
Under **Access**, enable the *Accessible from repositories in the 'your-classroom' organization* option.

If you have already created an assignment before, visit GitHub Classroom and edit the `classroom.yml` action from there.
If you commit changes with your own GitHub credentials, GitHub Classroom will consider as if students submitted their work (since a non-bot user created commits to their repo).
